Module : 6 Python Fundamentals

Introduction to python
 Theory:
 Que1 : Introduction to python and its feature (simple,high-level,interpreted langugage)
 Answer : python is a simple,highlevel  open-source, independent,dynamic and interpreted language.
 its widely used in web application,software development,data science and machine learning
 ->developer use python because it is efficient and easy to learn and can run on many diffrent plateform
->python also used for desktop based application using tkinter + sql.

Que2 :  History and evolution of Python.
Answer : python developed by guido van rosum in 1991.
python named  because guido van russum faviourite comedy show its named is
 monty python's flying circus  and he wanted to uniq name so  named is a python
 1980 : guido van russum work programming language is a ABC language
ABC language : simple write and learn but its a limited
but In christmas holiday guido van russum think that a made a language there should bu simple
and powerful.then  started language of python

Que3 : Advantages of using Python over other programming languages.
Answer :  Answer : python is a simple,highlevel  open-source, independent,dynamic and interpreted language.
 its widely used in web application,software development,data science and machine learning
 ->developer use python because it is efficient and easy to learn and can run on many diffrent plateform

Que 4: Installing Python and setting up the development environment (Anaconda, PyCharm, or VS
Code).
Answer : Go to official website : https://www.python.org and  Download Python then Install it
Using PyCharm : Download : https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm
2.Install ,3.Open PyCharm , 4.Create new project 5,Select Python interpreter

Que 5: Writing and executing your first Python program.
print('hello')

2. Programming Style
Que 1 : Understanding Python’s PEP 8 guidelines.
PEP 8 (Python Enhancement Proposal 8) is a style guide,It tells you how to write clean and readable Python code.
PEP 8 Important for Makes code easy to read,Helps teamwork,Makes code look professional
PEP 8 is a guideline that defines how to write clean, readable, and standard Python code

Que 2 : Indentation, comments, and naming conventions in Python
1.Indentation : spaces at the beginning of a line,spaces to define block of code
Use 4 spaces (PEP 8 rule) , Same indentation for same block

2.comments : Comments are something that are ignored by the python interpreter
Comments in python use :
1.# keyword for Single-line comment
2.""" """ : Multi-line comment

3.naming conventions :
Naming Conventions: you can write variables in python using 3 ways
1.camelCase : studentNumber
2.PascalCase : StudentNumber
3.snake_case : student_number

Que : 3 Writing readable and maintainable code.
Readable code = easy to understand
Maintainable code = easy to update/change later





